In this lesson, we have homework, in which it is necessary to implement
automatic renewal of life, that is, we received damage and after a while our
life begins to increase. All logic should be in the health component.
Try to parameterize the problem as much as possible. I added several parameters:
1 - AutoHeal enabled or not; 2 - the frequency with which life will be added; 3 - parameter
is the delay before calling the update timer; 4 - how much health is added at a time.
Pause here, then a solution will follow.
First, let's create all the necessary variables and functions in the .h file, and then move on to the .cpp file.
Let's start by creating property. The category will be called Heal.
The first property is of type boolean - AutoHeal. Whether or not our add life logic is enabled or not.
The next property is the refresh rate.
The variable is of type float. Let's call it HealUpdateTime.
And let the default be 1 second.
The next property will be responsible for the delay before the start of the update timer. It will also be of type float.
Let's call it HealDelay. It will also be measured in seconds and let it be 3 seconds by default.
And the last variable. She will be responsible for the number of lives that we add with one
update of our timer. The variable will be of floating point type. Let's call it HealModifier.
And by default, let it be five health points. Next, we need a timer descriptor.
Add a variable of type FTimerHandle. Let's call it HealTimerHandle.
And we declare the HealUpdate function,
which will be called every time our timer fires.
Let's create a body for it right away.
We've created everything we need in a .h file.
We can move to the .cpp file and start by including the header files we need.
First - Engine / World.h
Second - TimerManager.h
Let's go to the OnTakeAnyDamage function. First, we check whether we are dead or not, and if not,
then we check whether our auto heal feature is enabled or not and additionally check the pointer to the global
world object GetWorld (), because the manager timer is located in the UWorld object.
We get a reference to the timer manager via the GetTimerManger () function and set the timer using the SetTimer function.
Visual Studio hints that there are several overloaded functions here. We need this one.
The first parameter is the timer descriptor that we created.
The second parameter is a pointer to the object on which
the callback function will be called, the third parameter is a link to the function - HealUpdate, the
next parameter is the timer refresh rate. We insert our variable HealUpdateTime here.
The next parameter is whether the timer is called again or not. We put true and the last one is the
timer delay before the very first call. We insert our parameter HealDelay.
Thus, after we have received damage, a timer is set for us
and the HealUpdate function starts to be called cyclically,
in which we will increase our health by the HealModifier value. After the change in health, we do not forget to notify all
clients that our health has changed. Therefore, we call the delegate OnHealthChanged.
Let's change addition to a more correct operation,
because we may have a situation where health = 99, and HealModifier, for example, equals 10.
Let's use a function from the FMath class called Min and choose at least two values: the
first is Health + Heal Modifier and the second is MaxHealth. Therefore, the value will never be greater than MaxHealth.
Now let's figure out when we need to stop the timer.
We have to stop the timer when the health value has reached the maximum value of MaxHealth.
After the lives are fully restored, there is no point in calling the HealUpdate function.
Therefore, we check if Health equals MaxHealth and the pointer to the world is valid,
then in a similar way, we get a reference to the timer manager
and call its ClearTimer function, which takes one argument - the descriptor of our HealTimerHandle timer.
This is not the only place where we should stop our timer.
We must also stop it at the very beginning of the OnTakeAnyDamage function. As soon as they hit us,
we immediately stop restoring our lives. Let's move the check for a null world pointer to the very top of
the OnTakeAnyDamage function. Let's add to the very first condition. If the world is zero, then we exit.
Let's do a little refactoring. If you pay attention, our life is established in three different places.
Therefore, it begs to create a function. Go to the .h file, into the private category.
We call the function SetHealth. She will have one parameter, the amount of life. Function with private access,
so only the health component can supply the value of life. We create its body in a .cpp file.
In all three cases of updating life, the clamp function suits us.
In the first case, it is obvious. In the second, we already
have clamp, and in the third, which we just wrote in HealUpdate, the clamp function has stricter restrictions than Min.
Because it also constrains the lower bound. It suits us.
We copy our delegate. We have a bug in the clamp function. This function is template, so the compiler
needs to explicitly specify that all arguments are of type float. We insert the delegate after updating lives.
Let's update our lives in all places with the new SetHealth function.
On BeginPlay, we just pass in the MaxHealth function and remove the delegate. It will be called in our function.
In the OnTakeAnyDamage function
We must call the SetHealth function with the Health - Damage parameter. We delete everything else.
In the HealUpdate function, call the SetHealth function with the Health + HealModifier parameter. We also clear the rest.
All is ready. The code now looks much more concise. Let's improve one more point. We test for equality between
Health and MaxHealth. Floating point data. Testing for equality of non-integers is
fraught with errors, so let's use a function from the FMath class called IsNearlyEqual.
This function checks for equality two numbers of type double or float with some epsilon,
which we can specify as the third argument, or we can leave it by default. This is a very small number.
And we will do the same in our IsDead function.
Health we really cannot be less than zero, so it is enough to check Health for equality to zero.
We can use the previous function, or we can use an additional one called IsNearlyZero.
It is essentially a call to the IsNearlyEqual function with one of the 0 arguments specified. Compile the project.
Open the blueprint of our character. Select the health component, check that all variables have been created
in the Heal category . You can balance these parameters in different ways.
Click on play. We run into the red sphere. We receive damage and after three seconds of life they begin to recover.
Let's make a slight cosmetic improvement. In fact, all our parameters: Heal Update,
HealDelay, HalModifier are available if and only if the value of the AutoHeal variable = true.
The property has a specifier, which is responsible for whether the given property is active or not.
The qualifier is specified in the meta information. It is called EditCondition.
And it is assigned the value of the boolean variable. We point to AutoHeal.
We copy this information to all properties that are related to updating lives.
Launch editor. Let's see how it looks in the editor.
Select the health component. If we set the AutoHeal value to false,
then all our properties become unavailable for editing.